.TH PLUCK 1 "May 2026" "pluck 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
pluck \- Pluck git repos from any forge, auto-install
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pluck
\fIcommand\fR [\fIoptions\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBpluck\fR simplifies installing repositories from any git hosting platform (GitHub, GitLab, Codeberg, Bitbucket, SourceHut, self-hosted, etc.) by auto-detecting the project type and applying the appropriate installation strategy.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B install <url> [options]
Install from a git repository URL.
.TP
.B update <name> [--force]
Update an installed app to the latest version.
.TP
.B info <name>
Show detailed information about an installed app.
.TP
.B list
List all installed applications.
.TP
.B uninstall <name> [--force]
Uninstall an application.
.TP
.B remove <name> [--force]
Alias for uninstall.
.TP
.B verify
Check if installed apps are still valid.
.TP
.B clean [--force]
Remove orphaned registry entries.
.TP
.B stats
Show installation statistics.
.TP
.B doctor
Check tool availability (git, python3, npm, go, cargo, make).
.TP
.B config [key] [value]
View or set configuration values.
.TP
.B search <query>
Search GitHub repositories.
.TP
.B export <file>
Export registry to a JSON file.
.TP
.B import <file>
Import registry from a JSON file.
.TP
.B completion <shell>
Generate shell completion script (bash/zsh).
.TP
.B version
Show version.
.TP
.B help
Show usage information.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --dir <path>
Install to a custom directory.
.TP
.B --dry-run
Preview without making changes.
.TP
.B --force
Skip confirmation prompts.
.TP
.B --shallow
Use shallow clone (--depth 1).
.TP
.B --ref <ref>
Clone a specific branch or tag.
.TP
.B --method <method>
Force a specific install method.
.TP
.B --yes
Non-interactive mode (alias for --force).
.TP
.B --json
Output in JSON format.
.TP
.B --no-color
Disable colored output.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B ~/.pluck-registry.json
JSON file tracking installed applications.
.TP
.B ~/.config/pluck/config.json
User configuration file.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Install from GitHub:
.B pluck install https://github.com/user/repo
.TP
Install from GitLab:
.B pluck install https://gitlab.com/user/project
.TP
Install from Codeberg:
.B pluck install https://codeberg.org/user/repo
.TP
Install with shallow clone:
.B pluck install https://github.com/user/repo --shallow
.TP
Install to custom directory:
.B pluck install https://github.com/user/repo --dir /opt/apps
.TP
List installed apps:
.B pluck list
.TP
Check tool availability:
.B pluck doctor
.SH AUTHOR
pluck contributors
